[Music]
the Hawthorne School for exceptional
young men they called an emergency
council we're obliged to get on a plane
immediately airline food for lunch when
I made reservations at Galatoire's it's
just to troll she's the guardian of
veracity in the vernacular can play
multiple musical instruments has
impeccable fashion sense and is the
Queen at throwing shade a bobble head
with crotchless panties
we met Myrtle snow way back in coven and
she's back from the dead yet again for
season eight
let's explore everything you need to
know about Myrtle snow as we prepare for
the coming apocalypse make sure you're
subscribed to the channel for our weekly
episode breakdowns of American Horror
Story apocalypse and more of our
character deep dives we've already
covered Cordelia good Madison Montgomery
Constance and Tate Langdon in misty day
let us know who you'd like to see next
way back in coven we were introduced to
Myrtle snow within the first 10 minutes
of season 3 she arrived at Zoe Benson's
house to take the exceptional young lady
to miss robichaux's Academy but in order
to get a good idea of who she is we have
to go back a few years to the 1970s see
Myrtle grew up within the walls of the
Academy and even as a young witch she
was rivals with Fiona Goode it was here
that Anna Leigh Leighton was the coven
supreme a title that fiona was
determined to grab that's right Fiona
murdered Layton in order to take her
place she was questioned by the witches
council but lies and tells them that she
has no clue where Layton could be she
then tells the council that Layton's
wishes were for her to take over but
it's too late as the Academy holds a
nice little dinner party to announce
Fiona's appointment as the next supreme
Myrtle is pissed
she knows Fiona lied and suspects her of
murdering Layton then Fiona goes all
Real Housewives on her [ __ ] you and I
ain't never gonna be friends
be careful this is scary the only person
that knows the truth is Spaulding who
helped cover up the murder for Fiona
Myrtle enchanted his tongue the night
before he was to speak in front of the
council this would prevent him from
telling any lie but before the night is
over the coven finds Spaulding on the
bathroom floor with his tongue cut out
of his mouth it looks pretty damn
suspicious with Fiona there but as it
turns out Spaulding is just extremely
loyal to her like cut your own tongue
out of your mouth loyal Myrtle knew that
Fiona was incapable of a Supremes duties
but she was unable to prove you and his
guilt so Fiona became the next supreme
and Myrtle the head of the witches
Council the rivalry between these two
would continue for years to come sadly
you are given the state of this coven
and the school one who could be forgiven
for thinking we've been without a
supreme for the past 40 years if you
don't like the way I run things take it
up with the council let's fast-forward
to present-day coven Myrtle is holding
it down on the witches Council with
Quentin Fleming and Cecily Pembroke
she's tasked with bringing Zoe to the
Academy but we don't see her again until
Madison's disappearance she was actually
murdered by Fiona after noticing she
could no longer hear Madison's thoughts
nan summoned the council to the Academy
they then questioned everyone to find
out what happened
Myrtle correctly accused Fiona of
killing Madison but Fiona was prepared
remember she plays a dirty the supreme
fabricated some evidence and used
Queenie's powers to frame Myrtle as
Madison's killer and Cordelia's acid
attacker both of which were false
regardless the council deems that Myrtle
is guilty and she sentenced to burn at
the stake as the coven watch is on any
last words they're all a bunch of little
toads in a pot Fiona's slowly bringing
to a boil
you won't even feel it until it's too
late I'd rather burn them boys
lucky for Myrtle misty day stumbled
across her charred remains before those
dogs could do some serious damage
misty brings her to her secret garden
buries her in some magic dirt and adds
water a few days later Myrtle rises from
the earth just in time to warn misty
that a suspicious witch's s and was
about to shoot her turns out that was
Cordelia's murdering ex-husband Hank at
this point Myrtle is pretty much
convinced that misty is the next supreme
so she begins the sacred taking which is
how the coven will find its next supreme
problem is they just need Fiona to die
first
both Madison and Myrtle tried their best
to persuade Fiona to take her own life
it didn't work but at least Myrtle got
some free jewelry out of it now half of
it space but half of its cush
but the good news is that Cordelia
finally realizes how evil her mother
truly is they had an awful relationship
and Myrtle was much more of a mother to
Cordelia than Fiona ever was
she brought Cordelia to the Academy when
she was a teenager when Fiona had other
priorities deep-down Cordelia knows that
Myrtle would never have executed that
acid attack on her
Myrtle feels so bad about Cordelia's
current predicament that she helps her
get her vision back it involves the
council and a melon baller
Myrtle gets her revenge on PEM B and
Quinton and guess what
Cordelia has some new eyes I had a
turkish angora cat who was bald one
brown eye and she was absolutely
gorgeous
oh my god I can't see oddly enough
Cornelia gets her vision back but loses
the power of the sight don't worry
nothing that some gardening shears
wouldn't fix by the way I promised no
more eyeball violence in this video
let's fast-forward to the trial of the
seven wonders following the deaths of
misty and then Zoe
Myrtle finally convinces Cordelia to
test her own true powers and Myrtle was
right
Cordelia destroys the competition while
Madison throws a fit
Kyle kills Madison because she refused
to bring Zoe back to life at that very
instant Cordelia successfully bring Zoe
back to life proving once and for all
that she was destined to become the
coven's leader
[Music]
[Applause]
her home the one true supreme Cordelia
immediately opens up the doors of the
Academy to any and all exceptional young
ladies looking for a home when it comes
to the topic of the witches Council
Myrtle insists that she must step down
and be burned at the stake remember she
did kill her former council members and
needs to take responsibility those are
the rules so against Cordelia's own
wishes she was forced to kill Myrtle
once again but you know she went out in
style
any last words
[Applause]
but that wouldn't be the last we'd hear
from Myrtle in this season's apocalypse
we learned that Cordelia brought Myrtle
back from the dead after she had a
horrific Walking Dead vision of the
future caught you here what have you
done I gave you strict instructions not
to bring me back I know
the danger is coming after Queenie was
killed in hotel Cortez Cordelia was in
need of myrtles guidance and wisdom on
the witches council a few years before
the apocalypse the council was summoned
to meet with the Hawthorn school for
exceptional young men aka the warlocks
their newest recruit Michael Langdon
showed some extraordinary gifts and they
demanded that he attempt the Seven
Wonders trial they believed Michael was
the alpha stronger than any other
warlock witch or supreme in reality he's
the Antichrist
to put it lightly Myrtle is not a fan of
letting a man attempt the seven wonders
you're not even hearing us out there's
nothing to hear there will never be a
male supreme it will simply never happen
but after Michael brings both Queenie
and Madison back from Hell Cordelia has
no choice but to let him attempt the
test Myrtle is still pissed and nothing
in the world will change my mind
see Myrtle would rather delay the
Warlocks wishes and wait for one of the
witches to emerge like Mallory who has
immense powers herself like turning
flowers into butterflies
Michael eventually takes the test and
proves he's incredibly strong and for
extra credit he even brings misty day
back from Hell as well the bad news
Michael is nearly unstoppable
but the good news the entire coven is
now reunited on present-day Halloween 20
21 months after the apocalypse Cordelia
Myrtle and Madison show up to outpost 3
which used to be the Hawthorne school
they're searching for their fallen
sisters aka witches Koko Mallory and
Deana who were basically undercover
witches the entire time they just had
identity spells on them they come face
to face with Michael and Myrtle uses
another epic shade spell perhaps you
haven't noticed the state of the world
at least the world can be saved by you
by all of us guys we only have two more
episodes left to see if the coven can
stop Michael in the apocalypse but in
the meantime let us know your favorite
line from Myrtle snow in the comments
below also which other characters would
you like to see us cover thanks for
watching and we'll see you soon